h1. rah_get_date

p. The plugin, rah_get_date, outputs date and time from the requested url. Supports "Textpattern's":http://www.textpattern.com build in @date@ and @month@ -GET variables, and outputs formatted date based on those two GET values. That way you can, for example, output month header to month separated article listing pages.

* Version: 0.2
* Updated: 2011/05/22 6:55 PM UTC

h3. Table of Contents

* "List of features":#list-of-features
* "Requirements":#requirements
* "Installation and usage":#installation-and-usage
* "Attributes":#attributes
* "Examples":#examples
* "Changelog":#changelog

h3(#list-of-features). List of features

* Output date from @?date=@ and/or @?month=@ get values.
* Format date just like you can with @<txp:posted />@.

h3(#requirements). Requirements

p. Minimum requirements:

* TXP 4.x.x+

p. Recommended:

* TXP 4.4.0+

h3(#installation-and-usage). Installation and usage

p. The basic method stands: paste plugin code to the plugin install textarea and run the automatic setup. Activate the plugin, and you are ready to use the new tag, @<txp:rah_get_date />@ like others.

h3(#attributes). Attributes

The tag is @<txp:rah_get_date />@ and attributes for it follow. All attributes are optional.

p. *format*
Date format used to output the date. Any valid "strftime()":http://php.net/strftime string value since "iso8601,":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601 w3cdtf, or "rfc822.":http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc822/#z28
Default: @format="%Y %B"@ Example: @"%Y %m %d"@.

p. *format_year*
Allows specific formatting for dates that only specify the year (@YYYY@). If the attribute is set, the additional formatting is used. Same formatting rules apply.
Default: @unset@ Example: @format_year="Articles posted during %Y"@

p. *format_month*
Allows specific formatting for dates that only specify the year and the month of the year (@YYYY-mm@). If the attribute is set, the additional formatting is used. Same formatting rules apply.
Default: @unset@ Example: @format_month="%B, %Y"@

p. *format_date*
Allows specific formatting for dates that only specify the year, the month and the day of the month (@YYYY-mm-dd@). If the attribute is set, the additional formatting is used. Same formatting rules apply.
Default: @unset@ Example: @format_date="%B %d, %Y"@

p. *format_hour*
Allows specific formatting for dates that only specify the year, month, day and hour of the day (@YYYY-mm-dd HH@). If the attribute is set, the additional formatting is used. Same formatting rules apply.
Default: @unset@ Example: @format_hour="Posted on %H of %d"@

p. *format_minute*
Allows specific formatting for dates that only specify the year, month, day, hours and minutes (@YYYY-mm-dd HH:MM@). If the attribute is set, the additional formatting is used. Same formatting rules apply.
Default: @unset@ Example: @format_minute="%H:%M"@

p. *format_second*
Allows specific formatting for dates that only specify the year, month, day, hours, minutes and seconds (@YYYY-mm-dd HH:MM:SS@). If the attribute is set, the additional formatting is used. Same formatting rules apply.
Default: @unset@ Example: @format_second="%Y %B, %d %H:%M:%S"@

p. *format_now*
Formatting used if the requested date is the current time. Current time's condition is set with the @now_condition@ attribute. By default, if the requested date/time is within the current day, the formatting defined in @format_now@ is used.
Default: @unset@ Example: @format_now="Articles posted today"@

p. *now_condition*
Defines what dates are considered as current time. Set the date format that is used in matching current and requested dates. By default matches days (today).
Default: @now_condition="%Y-%m-%d"@ Example: @"%Y-%m"@

h3(#examples). Examples

p. *Example #1: Basic usage*

bc. <txp:rah_get_date format="%Y %B" />

p. Outputs @"2009 March"@ if requested URI is @http://mysite.com/path/?month=2009-3@.

p. *Example #2: Use specific formatting for dates that only define the year*

The example uses @format_year@ attribute to set the formatting for the dates that only specify the year.

bc. <txp:rah_get_date format="%Y %B" format_year="Posted during %Y" />

p. Outputs @"2009 March"@ if the requested URL is @http://mysite.com/path/?month=2009-3@ and @"Posted during 2008"@ if the requested URL is @http://mysite.com/path/?month=2008@

p. *Example #3: Output @"Posted today"@, if the requested timestamp is today.

bc. <txp:rah_get_date now_condition="%Y-%m-%d" format_now="Posted today" />

h3(#changelog). Changelog

p. *Version 0.2*

* Added: support for additional formatting rules applied based on timestamp's accuracy. Added attributes: @format_year@, @format_month@, @format_date@, @format_hour@, @format_minute@, @format_second@, @format_now@, @now_condition@ and @date@.
* Added: Ability to set the date using @date@ attribute in addition to the URL parameter.
* Now uses safe_strtotime() instead of strtotime() to format the dates.
* Now checks if the provided date is in valid strtotime() format.
* Skip date formatting if the resulting formatting string is empty.

p. *Version 0.1*

* First release.